SAMPLE TRANSCRIPT

Foreword

One of the most striking themes that emerged from the research for this 
game was just how astonishingly racist (by 21st Century standards) the 
United States of the mid-19th Century was.  Nearly all of white America 
believed in stereotypes about African-Americans that have long since been 
discredited, and the political discourse of the day reflected those ideas.  
Even opponents of slavery held views that would be considered offensively 
racist today, sometimes even more so than their pro-slavery opponents.

This game is based on true events.  It attempts to portray its subject
matter as accurately as possible.  The attitudes about race expressed by 
the characters in the game are emphatically NOT those of the author, and 
in many cases are quoted verbatim from contemporary accounts.

[Press RETURN to continue.]

The sun has gone down, but the heat hasn't.  The air hangs sticky and humid
in your one-room cabin, and the night sky outside is lit up now and again by 
heat lightning.

Claim Cabin

The cabin is built of rough wooden "shakes", with visible gaps between them
through which the faintest hint of a breeze blows.  You haven't gotten around
to installing proper windows or a door yet -- cotton curtains do the job for
now.  They're tucked out of the way to try to encourage what fitful breeze 
there is to help cool the cabin.  It isn't helping much.

Drury is back from Dutch Henry's with "big news" for you and your father.
The three of you huddle around the lantern and try to keep your voices to
hushed whispers to avoid waking Maw and Will.

"...so what does Sheriff Jones do?" asks Drury, rhetorically.  "He gathers 
hisself up a posse and rides right smack into Lawrence to arrest the whole
lot of them."

"Them New England boys -- did they fight 'im?" asks Paw.

Outside, you can hear Atchison barking at something.

+---
| 1. "I hope Jones shot 'em full o'holes!"
| 2. "What's wrong with Atchison?"
+---

> OUT

You've been waiting all day to hear the news.  You're not about to miss
it now.

+---
| 1. "I hope Jones shot 'em full o'holes!"
| 2. "What's wrong with Atchison?"
+---

> EXAMINE MAW

In the dim light of the lantern, your mother and youngest brother are 
barely distinguishable from the sacks of flour and meal piled beside
them.

+---
| 1. "I hope Jones shot 'em full o'holes!"
| 2. "What's wrong with Atchison?"
+---

> EXAMINE PAW

Everyone always tells you that you're the spitting image of your father.  If 
so, then you have hollow cheeks, laugh lines around your eyes, and scraggly 
grey whiskers.

"Naw," replies Drury.  "Jones and his boys rode right in, arrested Robinson 
and the rest of his crew, and blew that damned hotel of theirs to Kingdom 
Come."

"What'd I tell you?" asks Paw.  "They're yeller!  I bet half of them have
skedaddled by now, and won't stop running until they get all the way back to 
Boston."

Atchison's barking recedes into the distance as he runs after something.

+---
| 1. "Serves 'em right."
| 2. "Maybe now we'll have some peace."
| 3. "Wait -- the sheriff blew up a hotel?!"
| 4. "What's wrong with Atchison?"
+---

> EXAMINE DRURY

Your younger brother is slightly more thickly-built than you, and somewhat
thicker, too, in the head.  Unlike your father and you, he is clean-shaven,
and perpetually wears a lazy grin that borders on a smirk.

The lightning flashes again in the sky outside.

"'Bout time them Yankees was run off," says Drury.  "They's just here to
steal our n-----s, and the whole durned Territory, too, if we're not careful."

"And it's high time we run off them Abolition folks around here, too,"
says your father.  "Now, listen.  Tomorrow, I want you boys to--"

"Damn it!" cries a strange man's voice outside the cabin.  "Stupid dog!"

You hear Atchison growl, then yelp in pain.

+---
| 1. "What was that?"
+---

> OUT

Homestead

Your little cabin sits on the open prairie beside the fields that you and
Drury have spent the last week clearing and plowing.  A few rods away to
the north and east, you can see the trees down by the creek.  Rolling
grassy hills stretch to the horizon in all other directions.  A road runs
east, toward the Shermans', and west, into the prairie.

You quickly discover the source of Atchison's barking: outside your cabin
are five men brandishing swords.  You recognize the men instantly: it's John
Brown, the neighborhood troublemaker, and the one who Paw probably had
most in mind to "run off," along with four of his boys.

In the distance to the north, you can make out three more men -- it's too 
dark to tell who -- holding enough horses for Brown's entire party.  One 
of them strikes Atchison with a cavalry sabre.  Your dog crumples to the 
ground in a heap.

"Boy, where is your father?" asks Brown.

+---
| 1. "What's this all about?"
| 2. "He's inside.  I'll get him."
| 3. "He ain't here.  Now get off our land!"
| 4. "My dog!  You'll pay for this, you bastards!"
+---

> EXAMINE BROWN

A grim-faced man in his mid-fifties, thin and owlish.  His hair is silver, 
and his eyes glint with a cold light.  He has a Colt's patent revolver 
tucked into the belt of his trousers.

"Doyle!" calls Brown.  "James Doyle!  We know you're in there.  Come out!"

+---
| 1. "We don't want any trouble.  You'd best be leaving."
| 2. "He ain't here.  Now get off our land!"
| 3. "My dog!  You'll pay for this, you bastards!"
+---

> 1

"He ain't here," you say.  "Now get off our land, all of you!"

"Don't you lie to me, boy," says Brown.  The lightning flashes again, 
turning Brown into a spectral black silhouette for an instant.  When your 
eyes recover, you are staring down the barrel of Brown's revolver.  "Don't
you ever even *think* about lying to me, do you understand?"

"Paw, what are you doing?" asks Oliver Brown.  "If you shoot the boy, the
whole neighborhood will hear!"

Brown stares into your eyes for a moment, then turns away.  "Keep him 
quiet," he orders.  
